---
layout:     post
title:      【笔记】巴菲特投资语录
date:       2020-10-9
author:     zlh
header-img: img/post-bg-coffee.jpeg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 笔记
---
引：巴菲特的致股东的信，于价值投资而言相当于《九阳真经》:
与其看百家争鸣，不如修炼好此内功心法。


1. We simply attempt to be fearful when others are greedy and to be greedy only when others are fearful.
2. It's only when the tide goes out that you discover who's been swimming naked.
3. I always knew I was going to be rich. I don't think I ever doubted it for a minute.
4. Rule No. 1 is never lose money. Rule No. 2 is never forget Rule No. 1.
5. Price is what you pay. Value is what you get.
6. Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble.
7. Widespread fear is your friend as an investor because it serves up bargain purchases.
8. The best thing that happens to us is when a great company gets into temporary trouble...We want to buy them when they're on the operating table.
9. It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.
10. For the investor, a too-high purchase price for the stock of an excellent company can undo the effects of a subsequent decade of favorable business developments.
11. Someone's sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago
12. If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes.
13. An investor should act as though he had a lifetime decision card with just twenty punches on it.
14. "All there is to investing is picking good stocks at good times and staying with them as long as they remain good companies."
15. The most important quality for an investor is temperament, not intellect. You need a temperament that neither derives great pleasure from being with the crowd or against the crowd.
16.  You don't have to swing at everything -- you can wait for your pitch.
17. Those who invest only when commentators are upbeat end up paying a heavy price for meaningless reassurance."
18. "Cash ... is to a business as oxygen is to an individual: never thought about when it is present, the only thing in mind when it is absent"
19. The one thing I will tell you is the worst investment you can have is cash. Everybody is talking about cash being king and all that sort of thing. Cash is going to become worth less over time. But good businesses are going to become worth more over time.
20. Buy into a company because you want to own it, not because you want the stock to go up.
21. Never invest in a business you cannot understand.
22. Risk comes from not knowing what you're doing.
23. One thing that could help would be to write down the reason you are buying a stock before your purchase. Write down "I am buying Microsoft at $300 billion because..." Force yourself to write this down. It clarifies your mind and discipline.
24. I insist on a lot of time being spent, almost every day, to just sit and think. That is very uncommon in American business.
25. Read 500 pages like this every day. That's how knowledge works. It builds up, like compound interest. All of you can do it, but I guarantee not many of you will do it.
26. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497.
27. Even now, Charlie and I continue to believe that short-term market forecasts are poison and should be kept locked up in a safe place, away from children and also from grown-ups who behave in the market like children.
28. You are neither right nor wrong because the crowd disagrees with you. You are right because your data and reasoning are right.
29. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital.
30. Diversification is a protection against ignorance. It makes very little sense for those who know what they're doing






